The President:
I'd like to speak with you for
a few minutes today about the
tragedy that took
place at Ft. Hood.
This past Thursday, on
a clear Texas afternoon,
an Army psychiatrist walked into
the Soldier Readiness Processing
Center, and began shooting
his fellow soldiers.
It's an act of violence that would have been heartbreaking
had it occurred
anyplace in America.
It's a crime that would have
horrified us had its victims
been Americans of
any background.
But it's all the more
heartbreaking and all the more
despicable because of the
place where it occurred and the
patriots who were its victims.
The SRP is where our men and
women in uniform go before
getting deployed.
It's where they get their
teeth checked and their medical
records updated and make sure
everything is in order before
getting shipped out.
It was in this place, on a base
where our soldiers ought to feel
most safe, where those brave
Americans who are preparing to
risk their lives in
defense of our nation,
lost their lives in a
crime against our nation.
Soldiers stationed
in Iraq, Afghanistan,
and around the world called
and emailed loved ones at Ft.
Hood, all expressing the same
stunned reaction: I'm supposed
to be the one in
harm's way, not you.
Thursday's shooting was one
of the most devastating ever
committed on an
American military base.
And yet, even as we saw the
worst of human nature on full
display, we also saw
the best of America.
We saw soldiers and civilians
alike rushing to the aid fallen
comrades; tearing off
bullet-riddled clothes to treat
the injured; using
blouses as tourniquets;
taking down the shooter even
as they bore wounds themselves.
We saw soldiers bringing to bear
on our own soil the skills they
had been trained to use abroad;
skills that been honed through
years of determined effort for
one purpose and one purpose
only: to protect and defend
the United States of America.
We saw the valor, selflessness,
and unity of purpose that makes
our servicemen and women the
finest fighting force on Earth;
that make the United States
military the best the world has
ever known; and that make all
of us proud to be Americans.
On Friday, I met with
FBI Director Mueller,
Defense Secretary Gates, and
representatives of the relevant
agencies to discuss their
ongoing investigation into what
led to this terrible crime.
And I'll continue to be in
close contact with them as new
information comes in.
We can't fully know what leads
a man to do such a thing.
But what we do know is that our
thoughts are with every single
one of the men and women who were injured at Ft. Hood.
Our thoughts are with all the
families who've lost a loved one
in this national tragedy.
And our thoughts are with
all the Americans who wear --
or have worn -- the proud uniform of the United States of
America; our soldiers,
sailors, airmen, Marines,
and coast guardsmen, and the military families who love and
support them.
In tribute to those
who fell at Ft. Hood,
I've ordered flags flying
over the White House,
and other federal buildings to
be lowered to half-staff from
now until Veterans
Day next Wednesday.
Veterans Day is our chance to
honor those Americans who've
served on battlefields
from Lexington to Antietam,
Normandy to Manila, Inchon to
Khe Sanh, Ramadi to Kandahar.
They are Americans of every
race, faith, and station.
They're Christians and
Muslims, Jews and Hindus and nonbelievers.
They are descendents of
immigrants and immigrants themselves.
They reflect the diversity
that makes this America.
But what they share is a
patriotism like no other.
What they share is a commitment
to country that has been tested
and proved worthy.
What they share is the
same unflinching courage,
unblinking compassion, and uncommon camaraderie that
soldiers and civilians of Ft. Hood showed America and showed the world.
These are the men and
women we honor today.
These are the men and women
we honor on Veterans Day.
And these are the men and
women we shall honor every day,
in times of war
and times of peace,
so long as our nation endures.